# Setting Up Your Go Environment

For Mac OS X users the simplest way to install Go is to use [homebrew](https://brew.sh/):

```
$ brew install go
```

Once installed you should probably do the following steps (not entirely necessary, but recommended):

### Step 1: Set Your `GOPATH`

Add the following lines to your `.bashrc`:

```bash
export GOPATH=$HOME/go
export PATH=$PATH:$GOPATH/bin
```

then source your `.bashrc` or open a new terminal to load it.

### Step 2: Create Your `GOPATH` Directory

Run the following command to create your `GOPATH` directory:

```bash
$ mkdir $HOME/go
```
  
# Create Your First Program

Start by creating a directory for your program. Let's call the folder `hello` and align it with your `GitHub` account:

```bash
$ mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/user
$ mkdir $GOPATH/src/github.com/user/hello
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/user/hello
```

Next, create a file named `main.go` inside the `hello/` directory, containing the following Go code.

```go
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {
      fmt.Println("Hello World")
}
```

Now you can build and install that program with the `go` command-line tool (make sure you are inside your `hello/` directory):

```bash
$ go install
```

This command builds the `hello` command, producing an executable binary. It then installs that binary to the workspace's bin directory as `hello`.

```bash
$ $GOPATH/bin/hello
Hello World.
```

Once you have added `$GOPATH/bin` to your `PATH`(e.g. `$ export PATH=$PATH:$GOPATH/bin`), just type the binary name:

```bash
$ hello
Hello World.
```

# A Few Points

The choice of the filename `hello.go` was arbitrary. You could have called it `main.go` or `first.go`. The name of the binary `hello` is actually derived from the directory name `hello`. The `go` command-line tool uses the name of the final directory containing your `package main` file(s) to name the binary. So for example, if you created a file under the path `~/go/src/a/b/c/d/umbrella/rain.go` then the name of the binary generated by `go install` will be `umbrella`.

All your Go code must live under `$GOPATH/src`. This takes a bit of getting used to i.e. not being able to checkout a Go project at an arbitrary location in your file-system. The good news is most folks like it!
